when you're making mashed potatoes if
you're using the wrong potato and you're
throwing them in a food processor you're
doing it all wrong the first mistake
people tend to make is they pick the
wrong potato they get waxy or boiling
potatoes which are great for boiling but
they're not so great for mashing and
even if they do buy the right potato a
lot of people end up not cooking them
long enough they cook their potato only
until it's just done the way you would
have potatoes with your steak for
instance that makes them harder to mash
and you end up with little pebbly pieces
in your mashed potatoes and who wants
that
another problem people have is that they
skimp on the milk and cream so the
potatoes end up all stiff this is bad
you might think that using a food
processor to mash your potatoes would be
great because it's really quick this is
so wrong it just turns them into this
sort of sticky pasty lump of glue it is
the worst thing you can do to a potato
now I'm going to show you the right way
to mashed potatoes the same way my
mother showed me the first thing you
want to do is pick a starchy potato
because it'll fall apart that's what you
want the starches potatoes are russets
and the next starchy astir Yukon Golds
and both are just fine next you want to
peel rinse and most important cut your
potatoes into nice even chunks that way
they'll all cook at the same rate and
you won't get any weird little nasty
hard bits in your potato next comes a
crucial step you want to cook these
potatoes until they are falling apart
put them in cold water and bring them to
a boil because that starts to break them
down more than if you just put them in
boiling water you want to salt the water
because the salt starts to disintegrate
the potatoes too but the most important
thing is that you really cook those
potatoes about twenty-five minutes after
you bring them to a boil let them simmer
a long
long and slow until the edges start to
fall off and when you stick a knife in
the middle it just all falls apart drain
the potatoes and then put them right
back into that hot pot and start to dry
them out over very low heat until they
really start falling apart turning white
on the edges and practically turning
into mashed potatoes right then and
there in the pot to finish the job you
can use a hand masher or you can use a
ricer for our super smooth silky
potatoes so now it's time to finally add
your cream or milk you want to make sure
it's warm so it doesn't cool down your
potatoes and the most important thing is
you want to make sure you use a lots
don't worry it can look like soup at
first but if you keep stirring you'll
see all those potatoes just drink up all
that cream the final step for making
great mashed potatoes is to add a few
fresh herbs chives are nice or maybe
parsley and some butter if you've done
all of these things right you're going
to have fluffy creamy silky smooth
mashed potatoes that will make you so
glad you made them and everybody at your
table will feel the exact same way